CORINNE WARNSHUIS:
Hello, everyone.
I'm Corinne Warnshuis.
I'm the executive director
of Girl Develop It.
And I'm super
excited to be here.
Today has been really
inspiring for me.
Really quickly,
for how many of you
is this your first time at
a Women Techmakers event?
OK, whoa!
OK, that's awesome.
And for how many of you is
this your first time or, maybe,
one of the rare
instances that you
get to be around like
minded women technologists?
OK, awesome.
So I'm glad to see
that some of you
get more frequent
time with other women.
So this panel in particular
is really exciting to me
because the
nonprofit that I run,
we really are about celebrating
these unconventional journeys.
A lot of women come
to Girl Develop It
who have completely
different backgrounds.
So I'm really
excited to be here.
And I'm also very thankful for
this day for Women Techmakers.
So thank you to the
team who's put this on.
And I'm really excited.
So let's get started.
And I would love to just start
with, really quickly, intro
yourselves.
And just tell us what
you're working on.
What are you doing right now?
PARIELLE LACY: OK, well I am.
Whoops, sorry.
I am Parielle Lacy.
I work here at Google
in the Cambridge office
on travel, hotels, and flights.
We recently launched a immersive
app that actually shows up
when you Google the name
of a country and the word
destinations.
And pictures show up, and
we're really excited about it.
LUISA HERRMANN:
I'm Luisa Herrmann.
I work at EnerNOC.
I'm a product marketing manager.
And I work with utility
energy management software.
SUSAN GOLD: I'm Susan Gold.
I'm professor of the practice
at Northeastern University
in video games.
And I'm the creator
of the Global Game
Jam, which is, think a
hackathon, but for games.
VIDYA GANAPATI: Hi, I'm Vidya.
I'm a hardware
engineer at Verily,
which is a sister
company to Google
and focuses on life sciences.
And I work on robotic surgery.
CORINNE WARNSHUIS: Awesome.
OK, so four incredible women
doing very different things.
And let's just
jump right into it.
So how did you get there?
Who of you and who of you
had a plan step by step
to get where you were going?
No one.
Oh, she had a little
bit of a plan.
LUISA HERRMANN: I had it.
It didn't work out.
CORINNE WARNSHUIS: OK, cool.
All right.
So plans work.
But you know, tell
us about your journey
and what passions led you to
get to where you are today.
PARIELLE LACY: OK.
So when I was in seventh
grade, I had an assignment.
I was supposed to pick a
job that I wanted to do.
And my family grew up
really, really poor.
So they gave us a
list of occupations.
And I just filtered by
whatever paid the most.
And then I looked
at the top five.
And I was just, OK, lawyer,
computer engineer-- those
look like two cool things.
And when I came into university
when I was an undergrad,
I majored in computer
engineering and political
science because that's
what pre-law people do.
And I thought computer
engineering was gonna be like,
I thought they'd give me
silica rocks and maybe string,
and I'd Macgyver a
solar panel out of that.
But, instead, it was just
all theoretical math,
at least at the engineering
school that I went to.
But computer science
is exactly what
I thought it would be like.
I built stuff.
I got to see it work.
It happened.
I had test cases, and
I really loved that.
So I was just like, OK,
I'll drop engineering and do
computer science.
I stuck with political science.
And if I'm being honest, I
thought that I was strictly
pre-law and computer science
was my backup plan until I
became very disenchanted
with government.
[LAUGHTER]
Which happens.
The more you study politics,
you're just, like, wow.
There's just no way.
And actually, while
I'm mentioning
that, the economy
between the efficiency
that comes with computer
science and the complete-- no.
[LAUGHTER]
[? No-ness ?] of political
science and just politics,
in general, is just strange.
And as I progressed through,
I did political internships.
I did computer
science internships.
I interned at Zinga.
And by the time my senior
came, I was just like,
I really like working
in computer science,
I really don't want to
be in school anymore,
and I loved what I was doing.
So I stuck with
computer science.
And now I'm software
engineer here at Google.
Still considering
political type stuff.
So I volunteer a
lot with politics.
Also, please vote.
[LAUGHTER]
Please register.
SUSAN GOLD: I was
going to say-- so I'm
a little older than everyone
that's on the panel.
And I would have to say
I've had lots of plans.
And I think that it's great
to have plans and strategize,
but always be willing to
just pivot at any moment.
That's one of the
things that I've
learned is that you can't
expect what's gonna come at you.
And you just have to be,
am I ready for it or not?
And I mean, to be honest,
when I was in high school,
they were pushing me to
be a flight attendant.
I mean, I graduated in 1980.
And that's where the guidance
counselor was pushing me
because I loved to travel.
So that meant I should
be a flight attendant.
[LAUGHTER]
I mean, how crazy is
that in this day and age.
But, at the same time, every
experience that you have
helps fashion the next plan.
So it just gets you prepared
for what comes next.
So although I would have plans
when I got into video games,
I had no idea how I
got to video games.
It was like, oh, we
decided you're going
to be teaching video games.
And I was like, what?
It wasn't in the plan.
And you just either drop the
ball, or you throw the ball.
Or you're like, wait, I'm
gonna recreate this game.
And you're like, I'm
going to do this.
And then you just pivot.
And you're like, OK, now I'm
an expert in video games.
Wow.
[LAUGHTER]
But it happens to all of us.
You didn't know you were
gonna be an expert in an area
until you're the
expert in the area.
And I think that that's
one of the things
that, no matter how many plans
we make or things that we do,
I think that it's that ability
to adapt and to not be afraid.
And we're all afraid.
But it's like not to let
them know that you're afraid.
And I think that's
really how you
manage to navigate your plans.
Like, oh, I thought it
was going down this path
but, oops, dead end.
Or oops, there's an obstacle.
And that obstacle could be
a lot of different things.
And it could be
just your expertise.
So you make a different plan.
And that's what I think
successful women do
is they're ready to
jump on the next plan.
LUISA HERRMANN: Right.
So I actually started out-- I
was born and raised in Brazil.
And I moved to the
US to go to college.
And now I'm a product
marketing manager.
But I actually have a degree
in chemical engineering.
And my plan was that I was
going to work in process design.
And I was going to make
processes more efficient.
And by that I meant
strictly chemical processes.
But, as it turns out,
there are more types
of processes to make efficient.
And so while all
of my classmates
were looking for jobs in
finance and consulting
in New York City, my
first job out of college
was at a manufacturing plant in
Cleveland, Ohio, which is great
if you're a 22-year-old woman.
[LAUGHTER]
So I did that for a little bit.
And it was really interesting.
But I was making all of
these changes to processes
and to the products
that we were making.
And I didn't know what result
that had down the line.
I didn't know how that
affected the business
or how that affected
what we were selling.
And this is a great story
that I might save for later,
but I ended up pivoting
from plant manufacturing
to marketing.
I got a job as a
marketing specialist.
And that's how I moved to
Boston, which was a little bit
different telling my
parents, thank you
for the degree in
chemical engineering.
I'm gonna go be a
marketing specialist now.
It took them a little bit.
I think that they still
tell their friends
that their daughter is an
engineer, which is fair enough.
I am.
But I managed to find my
way through-- I wanted
to go back into technology.
I wanted to learn just
enough about business
to make myself a
better engineer.
And so I kept plotting
my return into tech.
And then a year and a
half into marketing,
I was recruited for a
job in product marketing.
And that was also gonna
make me a better engineer.
That was three years ago.
It turns out that engineering
made me a better product
marketer and that being
a marketing specialist
made me a better
product marketer.
And now I just want to be
the best product marketer
that I can be while my parents
tell their friends that I'm
their engineering daughter.
[LAUGHTER]
SUSAN GOLD: I've
already said [? mine. ?]
VIDYA GANAPATI: Oh, OK.
So, yeah, I guess I'm
also like Parielle.
I'm starting out in my
career, not like Susan who's
had a lot more experience.
But in undergrad, when I
went to the career fair,
there was all these
software companies hiring.
And I thought, wow, so boring.
I will never do that.
But then I realized as
I went through college
and then graduate school
was I really interested
in global problems.
I was really interested in
poverty, hunger, renewable
energy.
And I found that I really
could use software skills
in these fields.
And when it was something that
was really exciting to me,
an application that I really
felt passionate about,
I was much more interested in
software and computer science.
So I actually ended up
doing my PhD in solar cells.
And my PhD was actually
entirely software.
It was entirely computational.
And then now I'm here
at Google or, I guess,
Verily, which I still
think is part of Google.
And I'm working
on robotic surgery
and really using software
skills to do something, which
I find very meaningful
in trying to do
minimally invasive surgery.
CORINNE WARNSHUIS: Wow.
OK, awesome.
So what strategies
have each of you
used to grow your
career beyond what
seemed within reach to you?
And what advice would
you give to the audience
interested in stretching
themselves to that next step?
Sarah, this morning,
talked earlier
about recognizing your own
power and owning your expertise
as a way to advance your career.
So what advice do you all have?
SUSAN GOLD: It's
about your network.
I mean, I try to tell my
students over and over again.
It's not necessarily
what you know.
It's who you know.
And it helps to be smart.
But it is really about
making those connections.
And I work very hard at
maintaining my connections
at this point in my life
because there are so many,
and the world has changed so
much, and we're so connected.
But it's doing those
follow-up emails.
It's doing the, hey, I
heard you were doing this,
and that sounds really cool.
Keep me informed.
It's the being active and not
just collecting business cards
and having a huge number
of LinkedIn contacts
or anything like that.
It's working that group.
And I try to make sure
that the things that I
do that I reach
people out to are
things that they care about.
So a lot of my work
is about creating
positive social impact.
It's about
democratization of tools.
It's about creating
diversity in games.
And all of these things mean
that I can't do it by myself.
I have to do it with people
that are like-minded,
that I care about
what I'm doing--
or at least profess to--
and then ask them for help.
And if you don't
use that network,
then it doesn't matter how
many cards you've collected,
or how many parties you
attend, or how many events you
participate in, you need
to be able to leverage
that in a positive way.
And I find that my
best success are
in the relationships
I've created,
and use those people as sounding
board and part of my everyday.
And it's not just
one person I know,
but one person who's actively
engaged in the things
that I'm doing.
And it takes a lot of work.
It doesn't come easy.
You have a big network because
you are actively talking
to them on a regular basis.
LUISA HERRMANN: I would remind
everyone that half of success
is just showing up.
It's one of the things that
took me a while to learn.
And I'm still pretty
early in my career.
So I don't know how much
leeway I get with saying that.
But one of the
things that I learned
is that not everyone wants
the same things that you want.
So you can't assume that
everybody knows what you want
and will help you get there.
So learn how to ask
for what you want.
Learn how to tell
people what you want
and what you don't want.
That's also equally important.
The beginning of your career--
and the rest of your career--
is going to be
about figuring out
what it is that you
want to do but, equally,
what you don't want to do.
And it took a really
long time for me
to be able to admit that I don't
have to be good at everything.
And I can tell people,
I'm not good at this.
Maybe I should do
something else.
And so be able to say these are
the things that I want to do.
And this is where I want
to go with my career.
Will you please help me?
PARIELLE LACY: I think
it also helps to be nosy.
Sometimes I think that their
career paths are like-- OK,
I think actually a
better anecdote is.
I do admissions interviews
for Brown University.
And it seems like students do
not know other jobs that exist.
They all say doctor, lawyer
and, on occasion, CEO.
And those are the only
three things I often hear.
And I think that sometimes going
off of how to attain a goal
is also determining
what goals you want.
And sometimes there are things
that you don't even know exist.
There are jobs out there that
you don't know that people do.
Someone designs boxes for Lego
waffles and-- Eggo waffles,
or whatever it's called.
So I think just asking people
how they got to where they are
and what they do is not
only a good icebreaker
but also really
informs your decisions
in what your goals are.
Or it doesn't have
to be occupational.
Other things in your life also.
SUSAN GOLD: Yeah, people love
to talk about themselves.
[LAUGHTER]
They do.
Look at us.
[LAUGHTER]
The truth is, I mean, when you
take an interest in someone,
they take an interest in you.
And it's that creating
that relationship part that
is so important because
it opens so many doors
and windows for you.
And it's opportunities
for you to see new things
that you didn't have any
idea that you wanted to do.
So, I mean, that's one of the
greatest things about curiosity
of being young and of
being ready to do things
because you just don't
know what's ahead of you.
And you're just like, oh, OK.
But it's that having
that excitement.
And then that
nosiness, I think--
I don't know if I
would call it nosiness
because I think people
have a negative connotation
about that.
But curiosity, inquisitiveness,
that kind of stuff,
I think people really like that.
CORINNE WARNSHUIS:
Yeah, definitely.
So show up, follow-up,
and be curious.
Right?
OK, so this question is a
little bit related to that.
You're good, right?
That's good.
OK, so it's common that
women and people of color
don't share their
work successes enough,
which can impact their careers
and potential promotion.
So why is advocating
for yourself important?
And what are the ways that you
have done this in the past?
LUISA HERRMANN: You have
to advocate for yourself
because you can't really
rely on anyone else
to advocate for you.
You can hope for it.
If you're lucky, you'll get it.
But you can't really
rely on somebody else.
You know your strengths better
than anybody else, hopefully.
You know what you want
better than anybody else.
And so you are the best
person to advocate for you.
You're also the best person
to give other people tools
to advocate for you, as well.
Say what you want and
what it is that you need,
and have them help.
But you have to believe in
yourself first for other people
to believe in you.
And I know this sounds so
corny like I'm sitting up here.
It's like I might as
well be Instagramming
this with a filter.
But really, if you
believe in yourself
and you tell people I can
do this, just let me do this
and believe in
it, you have to be
your best friend and your
first champion, really.
SUSAN GOLD: So easy to say.
LUISA HERRMANN: I know.
It's so easy to say
and so hard to do.
It takes practice.
I mean, the first time
you advocate for yourself,
it feels really awkward.
It really does for everybody.
I mean, can I tell a
story now because this
is gonna be really fun?
CORINNE WARNSHUIS: Yeah.
LUISA HERRMANN: So
the reason I got
the marketing job when I
was working at a plant was I
really wanted to do
something different.
But nobody at the
plant understood
what it is that I wanted to
do because I didn't understand
what I wanted to do.
I said, I want to be
in the business side.
That means nothing.
So a general manager for another
division of the same company
came to visit our facility.
And he said, you're
doing a great job
and what is it that
I can do to help you?
A lot of times, people aren't
going to ask you this directly.
But they want to
know, so be prepared.
I wasn't.
And my response was, you
can give me another job.
[LAUGHTER]
Which, while you're
at your current job,
is, perhaps, not the
best thing you can do.
But it worked out that one time.
I asked him, I want to
be on the business side.
And he said, do
you mean marketing?
And I said, maybe.
Why?
He's like, I have
a marketing role.
Do you want it?
And I said, yes.
And so it was
asking for something
and getting it, and having
that one opportunity
when I was like, I want a job.
I wouldn't recommend it
for everybody at all times.
My manager is
sitting right there.
So keep that in mind.
VIDYA GANAPATI: OK, so I just
want to start by saying I'm
pretty terrible at
advocating for myself.
So I was a graduate student.
So I've applied for a lot
of things like fellowships.
And whenever I would
see a fellowship,
I would read through it.
I'd be like, OK, yeah.
I can write 20 pages
about my research.
I can do all this stuff.
But then I would
see, oh, you need
to get recommendation letters.
And then I'd be like, no,
I can't apply to this.
But then you just have to do it.
You just have to power
through and ask for it.
And I found that sometimes
people do say no.
And it's kind of
embarrassing when they say no
and you've put
yourself out there.
But, really, you just
have to be like I did it.
Like, at least I asked.
So I think you just
have to keep in mind
to just be proud of
yourself for asking.
And let that override
other feelings.
SUSAN GOLD: I think,
from my perspective,
the more successful
I become, the more I
feel like I'm a fraud.
And I don't know if
that's just a cultural,
or related to the
gender, or just age.
CORINNE WARNSHUIS:
Imposter syndrome.
SUSAN GOLD: Imposter syndrome.
You know, it's like, why do
you look to me for advice?
Like, I'm a professor.
Oh, OK.
I get it.
I'm supposed to know
what I'm talking about.
And I do.
I know that I know
what I'm talking about.
But, honestly, I think that
maybe because of how I grew up
or when I grew up, it's really,
really hard to say I did that.
That was me.
Or, wasn't that awesome?
And so I've started trying
doing that at home to people
that I love.
I'm like, isn't that awesome?
I did that.
And they start cracking up.
I'm like, yeah, that's
exactly how I feel.
But I feel proud when I do it.
I'm like, I did that.
And my family laughs at me.
CORINNE WARNSHUIS: OK, so this
might be a little bit easier
then for you all.
There are over 12,000 women
participating in Women
Techmakers events this month.
So two questions.
What can we do as
a global community
to lift each other up?
It's sometimes easier to
lift others up than yourself.
And what do you do personally
to lift those around you up?
Do you mentor?
In what ways do you give back?
PARIELLE LACY: So I have a
lot of unofficial mentees
and also official mentees
through Brown University.
I get a lot of students
who contact me and ask
me questions.
And I'm just like, yeah.
Then I send out
emails, reminders,
and things of that nature.
And I think those
things are important.
I think, for obvious reasons,
obviously, people need support.
People need validation.
Sometimes there's just like,
is this an OK email to send?
Sometimes sending emails
to professors or even
prospective employers,
it's just really difficult
to see what they want.
And I'm just like, no,
actually we want two sentences.
I have a lot to do today.
So if you can make it
a little bit shorter.
And other things that
are important, obviously,
because I'm a little
bit political,
I'm going to say that
education policy, I think,
is very important.
I know there's a push for tech
to get AP, computer science,
and stuff in some schools.
But I think it should
be more widespread.
And I think that when those
initiatives pop-up or you see
something, you should
try to support them
in any type of way possible,
whether it be voting or maybe
even donating
money to campaigns.
Yeah, that's [INAUDIBLE].
And also, obviously,
people often
will reach out to
you if they feel
like they have some type
of commonality with you,
whether it be alumni connections
or they notice that you're
the only woman at your
company, and they're
interested in working
at your company.
And so just be supportive
of that relationship.
And understand that when someone
else is reaching out to you,
you're the person in charge.
And you decide where that
goes because they don't know
what they can get from you.
But you know what you can give.
SUSAN GOLD: So I'm a professor.
So that's my job is
to mentor students.
And in a field of games, when
I look out into my classroom
and I see a woman,
I'm like, ah, there's
another woman in the class!
I'm so excited!
And I make a big deal out of it.
And then the guys
are like, yeah, so?
But it is a big deal to look out
and not just see a sea of guys
out there.
And when I talk to even the
male students in mentoring them,
they have many of the
same issues that women do.
And very often, a lot of people
have other things besides that.
And it's just being
there to listen.
You may not have
answers for people.
But you're there
to support them.
And you're also
there to encourage
them to do more than
they're currently doing.
So as a professor, that's
one of your ultimate goals
is to get them to do
more outside of class.
And it's like do these
things, attend these things,
participate, make more
games, go to meetings
for the game developers
club, whatever,
and encourage people to go.
Everybody thinks like,
oh, I won't fit in.
They're too nerdy for me.
They only play
Dungeons and Dragons.
Whatever it is, you can go and
say, I want to play this game.
Or, I want to do this.
And you can dictate
those things.
So I sit around spending a
lot of time telling women
that they can do it.
Yes, you can.
And it sounds so silly
and so trivial-- yes, you
can-- but you can.
For me to go to a cocktail party
to network and to meet people,
I'm just as nervous
as everyone else.
It's not my favorite
place to be.
Given my choice, I'd rather be
home with the dog, and remote
and, you know, a
glass of wine, and not
have to worry about wearing high
heels or anything like that.
I would prefer that
mentee kind of thing
is just something that
became natural for all of us,
that we just support each other.
And as you said, 12,000
women participating in this.
Think of all the women
that didn't get to come.
And they're going to need
your support and the things
that you learned here to
carry that out with you.
And that's really
important, as well.
We're not living
alone on an island.
We're here together.
And how we impact each other
is incredibly important.
And how we do that
means sometimes
just sitting and smiling
and listen to someone.
And that's sometimes all it
takes to give someone the nerve
to go ahead and move forward
and to change their lives.
VIDYA GANAPATI: So just a
question for the audience.
Has anybody heard of
Girls Who Code or is
involved with Girls Who Code?
Are you teachers?
Teachers?
Any other teachers?
OK, so I was a teacher
for the summer immersion
program of Girls Who Code.
And I highly encourage anyone
in this room to get involved,
be a teacher or a
teaching assistant.
And I spent seven
weeks this past summer
working with a group of 20
16- and 17-year-old girls.
And we just did seven weeks
of intense computer science
curriculum.
And really, what the
mission of Girls Who Code
is that they see that
if you have exposure
to things in high school, you're
much more likely to pursue them
in college.
And this is why so
many people are history
and English majors is because
you liked it in high school.
And so the idea is
that if you get exposed
to computer science
in high school,
you're much more
likely to pursue it.
So that's something I'm
very passionate about, just
mentoring girls at the
middle school and high school
level, the age where
you're trying to figure out
what you're interested in.
And what I told my girls
at the end of the summer,
I was like, well, you had
this really lucky gift
of this program.
And you've been able
to learn how to code.
And now you need to go out and
teach at least one other person
how to code.
So I think that's my philosophy.
Just teach at least
one other person,
or tell another person
what you learned
from today, like the code
[? sprint, ?] for example.
And really, that's how
you spread the word.
CORINNE WARNSHUIS:
Yeah, that's awesome.
Yeah, there are tons
of great organizations
that you can give back
to, like Girls Who Code,
like Black Girls Code.
CoderDojo is another
one that has groups
all across the country
that teach young,
I think, middle
school children how
to code if that's something
you're interested in.
The organization that
I run, Girl Develop It,
we have some chapter leaders
in the house from Boston.
There they are.
So talk to them if you're
interested in giving back
to an organization that
teaches adult women.
Oh, wait.
We also have Providence
in the house.
Providence, raise your hand.
Raise it high.
Come on.
And so these women are
leaders in their communities.
And they recruit
teachers to come teach,
and many of them who
have never taught before.
So if you're thinking I
could never teach a class,
yes, you can.
You really can.
Believe me.
We've brought many
women up through being
students to TA-ing classes.
And these classes are
Intro to HTML CSS to Intro
to Python, et cetera.
And so if you have a need
to teach, or want to teach,
or want to be among
women learning,
definitely check
out Girl Develop It
because we're in 52
cities across the country.
And then, so bringing up leaders
and encouraging other women,
just to get a little
bit practical,
what is the best
way for each of you,
personally, for somebody
to approach you with?
Like, hi, can you be my mentor?
That's not the best way.
So what is the best way to enter
into a mentorship relationship?
And what are the
tactics that you've
used to reach out to someone
who inspires you that you
want to get some advice from?
LUISA HERRMANN: The
secret is coffee.
Buy me coffee, and I'll
be your mentor forever.
No, but seriously.
That actually has been a way
where I've engaged people
that I wanted to talk to.
Coffee works for dates, too.
But I'm not going there.
But coffee is not
a big commitment.
Let's grab coffee and
talk for a little bit.
And then sometimes
those conversations
are, literally,
just the 15 minutes.
Sometimes they turn into hour
and a half conversations.
So you never know.
You never know if you'll click
with somebody to be your mentor
until you actually try.
So one of the things is try to
get a little bit of face time
with that person.
Say, do you have some time?
I'm interested in--
and as Susan mentioned,
people love talking
about themselves.
People love talking
about what they do.
So if you know a little
bit, and you ask--
I saw that you did
this one thing.
Can you talk a little
bit more about that?
I'm interested in that.
How can I get into it?
And the coffee is key, but
just get that conversation.
Get those people talking.
And usually you
will learn a lot.
And then if they are interested
in what you're saying,
they will also try to help you.
SUSAN GOLD: To get
close to me, usually,
is volunteer doing
something that I'm really
passionate about.
So for my event,
the Global Game Jam,
it happens in 93 countries
in over 630 locations.
And if you say, oh, I was a
part of the Global Game Jam,
then I'm more likely
to be like, oh, really?
And then start to talk to
you because we have something
in common, a common experience.
Or if there is something
else that I'm doing,
like I did a lot of stuff
with positive social impact,
Games for Change, STEM
education, and things
like that.
Those are always to
get my attention.
But the other way is
to play a game with me.
I mean, I make games.
I play games.
And games are, as I was
talking to some people earlier,
it's a universal language.
And once you play a game with
someone, you've created trust.
You've created already--
oh, you didn't cheat.
You already know
something about someone
when you play with them.
And you get a real feeling for
who they are as an individual.
If you play cards with
someone-- it doesn't even
have to be a video game.
It could be cards.
It could be anything.
And I just love to play.
I think everybody loves to
play, but some more than others.
But that's a real way of
creating a relationship
with someone.
Or introduce me to a new game.
Oh, have you played this?
And those things
get my attention.
So yeah, it's about, if
you want my attention,
it's gonna be about
what I'm interested in.
So flag me.
Hey, look, me, I'm doing this.
But also, if someone
comes up to me and says,
I really love your passion.
I love what you do.
I have nothing to do with games,
but I just want to talk to you,
I take those calls, too.
And all they have to do
is write me an email.
And it's not as if you
can't find any of us online.
It's so easy, scarily easy.
But the thing is that if
you want to talk to me,
I will typically take
about an hour of my day
to go through the
stuff that comes in
that I don't know who it is.
But usually, there's a
lot of stuff in there
that I need to address,
like an e-mail.
Do I want to be a
speaker at this event?
Those are all
these I don't know.
I put it in a file.
I go back to it once a day.
I check it out.
I'm like, oh.
I got an email from
someone from the FDA
wanted to talk to me about
her passion for games.
And I had no idea how
that worked with the FDA.
But it was her
passion for games.
And she worked at the FDA.
And she started talking to
me about things she would
like to see happen using games.
And I was like, I'm
gonna help you do that.
But that's all it took.
And it was one e-mail.
So I think you hit on
something that someone loves,
and they're gonna jump on
it like a fish on a hook.
CORINNE WARNSHUIS: Awesome.
Thank you.
OK, so I got the
one-minute signal.
So I really quickly
wanted to go by.
So we've talked
about visibility,
creating visibility for
yourself and others, community,
being a part of community,
and giving back.
And then, I want to hit on that
third Women Techmaker's focus,
which is resources.
You know, it's really great to
get all these minds together
and share resources.
So I'm gonna take a note from
my friend Saron Yitbarek's book.
She runs a podcast
called CodeNewbies.
And she does shout-outs
at these CodeNewbies.
So I want you all to--
let's go down the line
and shout out something
that-- whether it's a TED
Talk that you think
everyone needs to see,
a podcast that you listen
to, a book that you
read that changed your life and
how you think about your work.
Let's get your pens ready.
We're gonna share
some resources.
And mine, again, would
be CodeNewbies podcast.
It's a really great
podcast-- interviews
with a ton of great minds
in the technology industry.
Parielle?
PARIELLE LACY: I recommend
reading the news.
[LAUGHTER]
CORINNE WARNSHUIS: Any
news sources in particular?
PARIELLE LACY: I particularly
enjoy "New York Times," NPR.
I'd also recommend "Just Mercy,"
by Bryan Stevenson, a new book.
Oh, and "The Seven Habits
of Highly Effective People."
I do think that was actually
pretty effective for me.
CORINNE WARNSHUIS: Nice.
LUISA HERRMANN: I read a
lot of very different books.
I was going to
recommend one book.
Well the last book that I read
was not related to this at all.
It was called "The
[? Pilgrimmage." ?]
It's very good.
It's a thriller.
But I think for the purpose of
this panel, I would recommend--
and we're at Google, I
realize-- but "Work Rules"
by Laszlo Bock, for
those of you who know.
It's a great book about
what motivates people.
And I used to think
that there was somewhat
at odds what a company
wants their employees to do
and what the
employees want to do.
And it turns out that it's not.
And that book helped
me realize there's
a lot you can get out of people
just by giving them autonomy
and freedom to do
what they want,
and what they think
is right, actually.
SUSAN GOLD: Oh, whatever.
[LAUGHTER]
This is my microphone.
So for me, it's Audible.
Like, I have no time.
I have a full-time job,
and then I run a nonprofit.
And you try to raise money, and
I try to create other projects.
So I have no time
to sit and read.
But I love reading.
And I love fantasy.
And I love all those things.
And I can fold laundry
and listen to a book.
But the one thing that that
Audible subscription provides
you with besides that, which
is my ultimate life hack,
is Monday through Friday
version of "The New York Times"
Audible.
And so the whole from the time
I wake up, brush my teeth,
and put on "The
New York Times," it
reads you,
essentially, everything
you need to know in
the day in 45 minutes.
And that's how long it takes me
to get dressed in the morning.
And I have a speaker
in my shower,
so I have the
podcast in my shower.
And then it's the NPR's, and
the 538s, and the science.
And I'm a podcast fan.
But that's because I
have so many things
I have to do that take up
your time-- walking the dog,
washing your clothes,
cooking dinner.
That's time you can't
afford to waste, especially
when you're busy.
So take advantage of the fact
that there are all those tools
out there, podcasts being
one of the greatest.
VIDYA GANAPATI: OK, I'm gonna
recommend a book that I just
read.
It's called "Big Magic."
And it's by Elizabeth Gilbert.
And it's nominally for
writers and artists,
but I feel it applies
very much to what
we're doing with creating stuff
with technology and software.
CORINNE WARNSHUIS: Awesome.
All right.
So I think we have
time for questions.
Yeah?
Yeah, all right.
So they have some mics.
This is the fun part.
Raise your hands high
if you have a question.
Oh, there we go,
right in the back.
AUDIENCE: What's your
favorite response
to a man saying something
ignorant or sexist
in a meeting or an event?
CORINNE WARNSHUIS: Take
it away, panelists.
[LAUGHTER]
SUSAN GOLD: So
there's two responses.
Either slap them
upside the head.
[LAUGHTER]
Or say you didn't just
say that, did you?
And then make them think about,
like, what did I just say?
I mean, I have to say
that being in games,
I feel like I'm with sailors.
So it's a constant
barrage of things.
And I learned to
filter a lot of it out.
But on the occasions
when something's
completely inappropriate,
I just call them out
and make them realize
what they've done,
and maybe think twice.
LUISA HERRMANN: So that
used to happen to me a lot
when I worked in manufacturing.
I was the engineer responsible
for a lot of projects.
And the vendors would
come in and say, hi, I'm
here to see the engineer.
Like, yep.
Is he coming?
Nope, she's here.
And I used to laugh
and make light of it,
like, ha ha, no, it's OK.
It's not OK.
And it's not funny.
And so that's what
I stopped doing.
I stopped thinking it was funny.
I stopped giving these
people an easy out
because if you make
them uncomfortable,
they'll think twice
before they do it again.
PARIELLE LACY: I
think a good way
to make people
uncomfortable is just
ask questions about the joke
until it's just, like, not
funny.
[LAUGHTER]
Like, they say something,
and you're just like,
what do you mean by that?
But that's not always true.
And then just keep
asking questions.
They're just like,
it's just a joke.
And then they get all upset.
And you're just like,
oh, it's not funny.
[LAUGHTER]
CORINNE WARNSHUIS: All right.
Another mic right here.
Right here.
It's coming.
AUDIENCE: Hi.
Can you each, or wherever it
applies, talk about, maybe,
a situation where you've
almost reached an impossible
obstacle in your career with
maybe a horrible manager
or a situation, and what tools
you used to have self-control
and learn from the situation?
Hypothetically-- I'm not
experiencing it at all.
CORINNE WARNSHUIS:
I'll just really
quickly say that I
really liked what
Sarah was saying this morning
about disarming with curiosity.
I think that that's
helped me recently.
If somebody is, kind of, coming
up against you, just say,
well, the facts don't
really support that.
So I'm unclear what you mean.
Can you tell me more
about that issue
or whatever you're coming to the
table with I don't understand.
That was helpful for me.
VIDYA GANAPATI: So
actually, I recently
had an experience
and not hypothetical.
What I did was
actually very similar.
I just kept calm.
And I just kept on
asking questions.
And I kept on asking
questions until, finally,
the other person realized
that they actually
had nothing to stand upon.
And at the end, I was like,
OK, so what are we taking away
from this discussion?
And he was like, I guess
we're all good then.
So I basically started
off with somebody
being very unhappy
with my performance,
and then realizing they
had absolutely nothing
to be unhappy with.
So, yeah, just keep
calm and ask questions.
Questions are your best tool.
CORINNE WARNSHUIS: Anyone else?
No?
LUISA HERRMANN: I would
say, and this is something
that I've taken for
life, just figure out
what you can learn from it.
Think about it as, it's hard.
It's uncomfortable.
It's unpleasant.
But let it make you less
uncomfortable in the future.
CORINNE WARNSHUIS: Right.
Sometimes the most
difficult situations
are the ones where
you learn the most.
Does anybody else have any other
questions for our panelists?
Here we go right over here.
AUDIENCE: So I recently
went to Hack@Brown, along
with some other fellow
Brown University grads.
And they had little jars
that you could put tokens in.
And they were going to donate
some money to an organization.
And three out of four
of the organizations
were about encouraging
women to code.
And we've got Girls
Who Code, Black Girls
Who Code, Girl Develop It--
16 different organizations,
at least.
How can we all work together?
I realize that these
different organizations
have different goals
and different people
that they're targeting.
But how can we work
together to make
an impact that's bigger
than the sum of the whole?
CORINNE WARNSHUIS:
Yeah, I actually
think that's a great question.
And before I came into
this space as a student,
actually, with Girl Develop It,
I thought, oh, yeah, there's
so many.
Why don't they all
just come together
and have one big
organization that serves
all of these different needs?
But actually, I found that
the more specific and the more
focused that these groups
are, the better that they
can serve the population
that they're trying to serve.
I mean, I'll speak
for Girl Develop it
because I am the executive
director of that organization.
And we really focus on
adult women, 18 and up.
And we really have found that
that space is something that
isn't really being focused on.
We're trying to help and
support the women who
missed the traditional
CS education who just
have been left out of
technology education
throughout their lives.
But an organization
like Girls Who Code,
they're really doing
something very different,
which is teaching girls
so that they might know
that computer
science is a career
or that it's a path
that they can take.
So we wouldn't even
see those people
because they would
likely have gone
on to do computer science
or something like that
or something related.
And it's really
about just making
people more aware of the issue.
I think when I was
in seventh grade,
my first entry to
web development
was I built a website
on ancient Egypt
and won a trip to Disneyland.
And that was really fun for me.
That was something
that really excited me.
But then I just did it as a
hobby in high school and HTML
and made my MySpace look pretty.
And I never even knew that
computer science was a thing.
I think girls in high school,
girls in middle school
today know it's a thing.
They hear about it because of
these great groups and clubs
that are around the country
and around the world.
And really, we're
focusing on the people
who might have missed
the boat and who
could really benefit from
having some technical skill.
I met a student here
today who is not
trying to become a
developer or a programmer.
She just wants to
be able to speak
with her team in a technical way
and understand her team better.
So there's just so many
different kind of paths
that we're catching women
to give them opportunities
in this very technical world.
That's my take on it.
I guess that question was
probably directed at me,
but if you want to go ahead.
SUSAN GOLD: Well I would
have to say there's
a reason why niches are there.
And it's because people
can't feel comfortable
in every space.
And it's just like
personalities.
Not everything fits everyone.
So although they share many
common traits or end goals,
how they achieve them are
always gonna be different.
And you have to adapt
for each and every one
of those segments.
CORINNE WARNSHUIS: OK.
Any final questions?
Probably have time for one more.
All right we've told you
everything we can tell you.
Awesome.
Thank you so much.
Thank you.
SUSAN GOLD: Thank you.
[APPLAUSE]
[MUSIC PLAYING]